## Optimistic lock and pessimistic lock

> Optimistic and pessimistic locking is the way how developer want to handle cocurrency problem. Assuming we have a data and developer might think when we interacte with this data the concurrent problem might be rare case. So we prefer to use optimistic locking which means we can handle at application level.

Ways of optimistic lock implementation
+ versioning
+ timestamp

Use case : read intensive

#### In my view, optimistic lock is really similar with CAS mechanism in Java, it tries to not using lock to solve concurrent issues.


> Pessimistic locking is also a high level thinking of how to handle concurrent problem. But in this way, we might think it would be high chance of concurrent problem occur so we have to use "real lock" which is implementated by database.

Behavioral perspective
+ read lock / shared lock
+ write lock / exclusive lock

Range perspective
+ table lock
+ row lock

Intent lock
+ when a row locked by read or write lock, before locking the specific row database would lock the table with a intent lock to indicate this table is locked so other thread do not have to scan entire table to find out if there is a lock or not. 

Use case: write intensive 

<br></br>

## How to solve deadlock


If deadlock occurs we need to break off the dependent circle manually or automatically.
+ In manual way, some RDBMS provides tool which can detect deadlock via a deadlock graph. Then developer can manually abort one or more of the transactions to release locks.
+ Or we can set a timeout within a transaction that let them automatically abort and rollback if they are blocked by a certain time period.


<br></br>

## What is Saga

> Saga is a design pattern to maintain data consistency in a microservice architecture without using distributed transacions.

Two ways of designing saga
+ Orchestration based 
+ Choreography based

Using Saga pattern
+ pros, not using distributed transactions such as XA which is not supported by Nosql,saga also helps microserices to be less coupling. 
+ cons, saga is more complex. Developer has to handle compensating transactions at application level.