## Redis, Memcache, Amazon ElastiCache

> Both Redis and Memcache are key-value, in-memory database so they provide high performance and both use as cache layer usually.

### Redis
+ supports many data types such as String, List, Hash, Set etc.
+ supports disk persistence, two ways of data persistence as 
    - AOF log
    - RDB snapshot
+ supports replication natively.
+ supports clustering
+ from Redis 6.0 supports multithreading, before version 6 Redis is single thread.

### Memcache
+ supports only String type
+ no disk persistence
+ does not support replication natively.
+ no clustering.
+ supports multithreading


### ElastiCache 
> is a service that provide easy management and development process for Redis and Memcache. 
support features such as hardware provisioning, failure recovery, easy setup etc.
+ Elasticache for Redis
+ Elasticache for Memcache

<br></br>

## Vertical and horizontal scale
+  Verical scaling usually refers as scale up which means add up more hardware to the machine, such as we can double the memory, double hard disk. But it does not mean we can double the performence.
    + Scale up is easy to do because we don't have to change any code but it really cost a lot.

+ Horizontal scale is known as scale out, it means we can use multiple machine as a cluster to provide service.
    + Because we need to put the different logic into different machine we have to tell system how to handle incoming requests.
    + If scale out good enough then performence would be much better then scale up.

<br></br>

## Hierarchical database 
> Hierarchical databases use tree-like data structure to store data, it has one root node and many child node and child node can only have one parent node.
+ pros - ease of use, tree structure is easy to traverse, easy to CRUD
+ cons - can not describe complex relationship and searching on tree is time consuming.
+ Example of hierarchical db, IBM IMS, Windows Registry, MS Windows OS

<br></br>

## BASE principle
+ NoSQL database relies upon a softer way which is BASE model.
+ Basic Availability, allow some of nodes not available.
+ Soft state, handle data state at higher level not in db, which means developer need to take care.
+ Evetual consistency, not enforce immediate consistency, but require a consistent state in the future.

<br></br>

## View and stored procedure

### **View**
> views are virtual tables that does not contian data itself.

we can create view as following
```sql
CREATE VIEW view_name AS
SELECT col1, col2
FROM table
WHERE condition
```
then use view as simple as like this

```sql
SELECT * FROM view_name
```
+ view simplifies our sql statement
    - as above we can simply retrive data through view.
    - view table is dynamically changed if underlying data is changed.
+ view provides a more secure way to show data 
    - Ex. we can create different view for users who have different authorization level.
+ view has limitation that can not change real table easily.
### **Stored procedure**

+ similar with java encapsulation, if we want to perform a complex query we can use stored procedure to encapsulate all sql statement then simply call and reuse that store procedure.
+ we can create stored procedure as 
```sql
CREATE PROCEDURE `name`(IN param INT)
BEGIN
    ...
END
```
+ later we can call that as
```sql
CALL name(10)
```
+ we can declare parameters such as IN,OUT, INOUT and only IN is not returned.
+ pros
    - compile once, reuse many time, stored procedure only compiles at the first time.
    - secure, authorization available
+ cons
    - not compatible in many RDBMS
    - diffcult to debug, few RDBMS support stored procedure debug feature.
    - does not work well under high concurrency scenario due to sharding and vertically split.
